# Data Science for Scientists ATL organizational meeting 07-30-2018

## Agenda

- Software Carpentry update
  + we have a website, instructor training
  + working with Nael + Lance + LGS to get Eventbrite for RSVP
  + we need to finish certification!
    - Elyse + Sena, put in PRs? When is discussion + practice sessions?
  + need to recruit helpers

- submitting a charter?

- teach short course in Fall?
  + Scientific Computing
  + should actually have a course design, get feedback from people -- other schools that have taught this

- hackathon
  + Elyse talked with Bob Baxley

- plan for upcoming months!
  + (potential) speakers:
    + Jen Doty -- "Support Your Data" toolset: https://riojournal.com/articles.php?id=26439
    + Bob Baxley
    + students from Shannon Quinn's lab we met at SciPy, one working on ML applied to Parkinson's/gait,
      another using network science applied to subcellular components
        * guy that I met at SDSC and forgot to follow up with, does distributed data storage  
  * head of Square Cash in ATL!!!
  + need to meet regularly: same place, same time
  + need to get feedback on every event
  + need to have regular org meetings too

- unfinished business from last org meet

## notes

### attendance
  Varun Saravnan
  Stephanie Prince
  Crystal Grant
  Joe Natale
  Elyse Morin
  Sena Agezo
  David Nicholson

### charter
- Elyse has draft, will send to us
- find out when GSC meeting is
- EM: constitution, budget, list of member, at least (10? 12? 15?), faculty advisor, reach out to president two weeks before
  + Jeremy Jacobson, Lance Waller
  + David will talk with Lance, let him know there's no extra obligations

### hackathon
+ Elyse, talked with Bob Baxter, since he was involved w/Anidata hackathon
  - his advice:
    + stick with already available data sets
    + stick with pre-defined questions
+ from Debora Owens:
  - they already have funding = food, drink, t-shirts
+ Joe -- actually work with companies, ask them if they have problems, maybe for hackathon, also maybe for mini-internships?
+ David -- for this hackathon at least, probably easier to ask 

### short course
+ need to plan this

## action items
+ charter
  - David, get list of members together, ask Lance faculty advisor?
  - Elyse, send us draft of constitution
  - emails about budget
  - **plan to have everything by 15th and then reach out to Mary Harrick**
  - budget, how much are they willing to give a new club?
  - write to Mary now and ask what initial budget is
  http://167509.orgsync.com/org/graduatestudentcouncil/Charters

+ hackathon
  - David, start a list of companies
  - Elyse, food + t-shirts
  - talk with other groups, Elyse talk with AWIS

+ Software Carpentry
  - David: finish recruiting helpers
  - David: figure out when we will have practice session

+ club
  - David, send Doodle to 15 or so regular attendees to make sure we can all attend
