# agenda, org meet 2018/05/16

present:
EM -- Elyse Morin  
SP -- Steph Prince  
SA -- Sena Agezo  
RT -- Robert Thorstad  
RM -- Rett Morrissette  
MH -- Madelyn Houser  
DN -- David Nicholson  

## potential speakers
  * Hasse, talk about something relevant to informatics core?
  * guy that I met at SDSC and forgot to follow up with, does distributed data storage
  * head of Square Cash in ATL!!!
RT: someone at Tech who predicts clinical disorders--depression, anxiety--from social media, Munmun De Choudry or someone at her lab  
RT: social network at Trent Ryan, another one of the TAs for QTM 100  
EM: I can talk to Trent  
SP: Chris Rozell, machine learning  
SP: bring in people in data science *not in academia*, outside speaker  
RM: there are also a lot of industry buzz word things you might miss in academia  
EM: separately we should have industry nights  
EM (from notes):
Ilya, Chethan, Eva Dyer, someone from Emory core to talk about computing resources (this could also be Hasse? -- DN)

## start to plan software carpentry bootcamp
* which sessions?
  Intro to Programming w/Python, Intro to git, intro to command line  
  look at what other places do in e.g. 2 day sessions  
* ** get 3 SOM rooms reserved now!!! (110/120/130)**
  - 120 people / room  
* what dates?  
> SA: semester starts 29/30th, a Wednesday  
> DN: so maybe do it week before  

* weekends better? --for grad students, no overlap w/lab time maybe? right before semester starts?
> RM: people might be gone right before semester starts  
> SA: Sept 8  
* will need ~1 helper to float around the room for every 10 students  
> SP: first week, everybody will be here  
> MC: are you trying to reach first years  
> DN: would be good  
> MC: reach out to program administrators, announce at orientation  
> RM: undergraduates?  
> DN: mainly grad students  
> EM: first weekend is labor day, so maybe next one, 8th-9th  

> EM: so would 10 week course be project-based or more focus on software skills  
> DN: focus on software skills  
> EM: spring, project based, maybe focused on diff skills like visualization  

> SA: for bootcamp / short course, use real-life biomedical data whenever possible  

## methods clinics  
* make a google sign-up sheet  
* use Tami's ideas  
> Some ideas for 5-10 minute presentations include, but are not limited to:       
> SHARE IT: Summarize an activity/idea to share lessons learned or get feedback  
> MODEL IT: Run an actual activity with us (your favorite one or one you want to try out)  
> TEACH IT: Present content to teach us something new  
> SEEK IT:  Share a challenge and solicit ideas/solutions  

* some random ideas I have for methods clinics
  + neural nets: Jim Kwon vocalizations, Sena vole orientation, other people's uses?, get help from BMI people that do this stuff all the time  
  + Rett + Signe -- MARTA project progress  
  + Me: how to make a personal blog / project web page easily with Python, Pelican, and github  

* We should take inspiration from http://www.thehackerwithin.org  
  - we should figure out how not to lose initiative / become inactive like some THW sites  

* how can we use datasets from local researchers?  
cf., https://dataverse.unc.edu/dataverse/Emory  

SA: data science groups at Georgia Tech? Let's not reinvent the wheel  

## what else?  
- hackathon?  
> EM: trajectory: fall, training that we can use in lab, spring, project-based courses  
> EM: we should try to find a company that should open source data, something that's not research data  

- general club organization  
  + code of conduct?  
  + some organizational structure?  
  + what do we need to do to be on track for submitting a charter in September  
> SA: structure is good for people are responsible for things, and so people know who to reach out to  
> EM: helpful to be on OrgSync, helpful to have funding  
> DN: Right, given all that, I think it makes sense to have structure, we'll figure that out soon  

## for next org meeting:  
- org structure  
- hackathon  

## decide on action items for everyone!!!  
DN: get SOM rooms reserved, email San, cc Elyse & Sena  
MH: can reach out to IMP, once we have time / dates / more info  
DN: ask Kate to talk to Ellen about Neuro  
RT: talk to Psych? Sure  
DN: figure out people to ask in other programs  
DN: make Google doc, ask people to sign up with ideas  
DN: make local dataset list repo  
DN: code of conduct  
DN: check in w/Lance on status of project-based course -- possible for Spring?  
DN: ask Wafa about data science group(s) at Tech  
DN: get in touch w/Eva Dyer  
EM: start to talk w/people about who could provide data for hackathon  
DN: make DataSci4ScienceATL website  
DN: set up Slack--get academic discount--and transition us to it!!!  